## [We are all electric](https://www.5gcrisis.com/science-explained)

```
Note: This investigation is a work in progress. Check back soon for more updates!
```

"Unless we happen to have a pacemaker, few of us appreciate the role that electricity plays in our bodies.
Human beings evolved over millions of years in a natural electrical environment.
The earth itself is a giant dipole magnet with poles north and south.
There are constant oscillations emanating from the earth's core, and a natural static magnetic field that shifts
slightly with the seasons.
These magnetic fields play an important role in nature, dictating migration patterns and controlling our own circadian
rhythms, among many other things.

"Like all animals on earth, our biological systems use an interplay of tiny electrical charges and chemical signals to
control and
direct precise responses to internal and external stimuli, thus influencing function and development. External
influences,
both chemical and electrical, can interfere with and adversely affect these biological processes. External influences
include
both natural and man-made electromagnetic fields (EMFs).

"While most public health experts and scientists understand how environmental factors influence our cell biology,
the idea that we can acquire a chronic illness from non-ionizing RF microwave radiation, even at low levels,
has not yet taken hold in the medical community. Everyone now knows the hazards of exposure to cigarette smoke and lead,
but how soon will we recognize the adverse health effects of the increasing and involuntary exposure to wireless
radiation?
Dr. Robert O. Becker, surgeon and researcher who was twice nominated for the Nobel Prize, once observed,
__“I have no doubt in my mind that, at the present time, the greatest polluting element in the earth’s environment is
the proliferation of electromagnetic fields.”__

