## QAnon is Controlled Opposition

```
Note: This investigation is a work in progress. Check back soon for more updates!
```

Most people are quickly gathering that QAnon was a (unsuccessful) controlled opposition project.
But what about the rest? Assange, Snowden, Manning, Lin Wood, Sidney Powell? Were any of them real? Nope!
Were they all highly-promoted by the media when normally such people are black-listed? Yes they were. That's the
give-away.

## [Controlled Opposition - Your Friend Might Be Your Enemy - Truth](https://steemkr.com/life/@steemtruth/controlled-opposition-your-friend-might-be-your-enemy-truth)

### Truth Fears No Investigation – Let’s Investigate!

### Controlled Opposition - What Is it?

"Controlled Opposition is a Protest Movement, Opposing or Dissenting Voice that is actually being led and controlled by
the Government.

"Throughout history almost all Governments have used this technique to trick, subdue and divert attention away from the
actual opposition - aided and abetted by the same complicit mainstream media that funded the political campaign of the
elected official whilst also managing and controlling his/her public perception - wake up!

"It's primary goals are to dominate, lead and control the 'opposing narrative' and divert the publics attention away
from the facts i.e. it is not opposition in any way, shape or form - it is manufactured opposition designed to look like
real/true opposition.

"The deeper that you dive down the rabbit hole the closer you will be to realising that you have been programmed since
birth - it's a very harsh reality, but it is true!

#### COINTELPRO (a portmanteau derived from COunter INTELligence PROgram) was a series of covert, and at times illegal, projects conducted by the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) aimed at surveilling, infiltrating, discrediting and disrupting domestic political organizations.

### Insights into Controlled Opposition

* If a good number of people know it - they most likely want them want to know it.
* They talk a lot of truth - if they didn't they would be easily identified.
* They never tell the whole truth and there are some recurring topics that they will never touch - that is the easiest
  way to identify them.
* The more awake that you are the easier it is to recognize one of them. It is an on-going process of awakening.

