
> “...disbelief in magic can force a poor soul into believing in government and business....”
>
> ― Tom Robbins, Even Cowgirls Get the Blues


## Magic and the Silly People
by Geri Roberts


After sixty years of studying mainstream, accepted history, I can tell you that  the most interesting parts are the things it doesn't tell you  Historians will say the same kind of thing over and over in their papers and books. This is called a narrative.  This narrative will then be hammered into the ordinary, unsuspecting person via novels, magazines, movies and TV shows.    If you are willing to back up, look at these things and ask yourself the scholarly question:  "What the fuck is THAT?"  you might get the answers to some interesting questions.  Or, more realistically, just decide that you have found some interesting questions that will never be answered.

The mainstream narrative about magic is startling when you take a good look at it. Isn't it curious how both science and religion say exactly the same thing about magic?  As if they are secretly in chahoots together.  Look back over your years in grade school or sitting in the pews of a church.  You were constantly lectured on how a belief in magic was either totally unscientific or a one-way ticket to hell.  Nobody believes in magic any more, you were told over and over by just about everybody.  So why was it being talked about so much....Hmmmm?  Why was it necessary to constantly point out to us how silly our ancestors were to have believed in astrology, alchemy, fairies and, dare I say it, magic?

Were our ancestors really silly?  These people survived in a world far removed from our sanitary, comfortable and food-filled society.  I have no doubt that if I were magically transported back in time to the Ireland of my great-great grandparents, I would be dead in a month unless my silly ancestors felt like helping me out.  Which they probably couldn't because I would be a useless burden. I couldn't cook without a modern oven, sew, knit, spin wool or weave cloth on a loom, butcher and care for farm animals or brew beer or make soap and candles.  Even doing laundry would be beyond me because many of the clothes had to be picked apart at the seams so the different materials could be washed separately with appropriate soaps and then carefully stitched back together. Maybe I could manage to iron a few things before sustaining third degree burns from the irons kept red hot on top of the stove..  I might be able to work in the fields for a half hour or so before my hands started bleeding and I fainted from exhaustion.

If our ancestors were able to see their descendants scurrying around all day with masks tied over their faces, I suspect they might wonder just who the silly people really were.  Or are.  My tenses are getting all mixed up, but you know what I mean.  .

Our concept of magic would be alien to these people we call "primitive".  Our attitude toward magic who strike them as childish and alarmingly unsophisticated.  Our ancestors didn't believe in the supernatural. What we call the supernatural was part of their every day lives.  It was right there next to them and could always be accessed for good and for ill.  They lived surrounded by invisible but very real beings who were either benevolent or maleficent.  The latter were always trying to steal their souls and energy, their treasure and land and destroy their families. .  And who were these maleficent beings?

I think they were the same maleficent beings who today surround us, control our lives, steal our money and our energy and try to destroy our families.  Sound familiar?  And it looks like they already have any land we still own via the banking/mortgage system.

Most people back then lived in the countryside or in small towns.  They knew what the sky looked like during all seasons and what phase the moon was in on any given day and what the weather would be the next day.  Certain seeds were planted in certain phases of the moon and picked at certain times, which was what the farmer's almanac was all about.  There were no rich people, but no very poor people either because everybody helped one another since they knew everybody would help them when needed.

Houses were built only after the land was carefully examined for certain signs and omens from the other world.  Black ants seen in the dirt were good luck, red ants bad luck.  A tiny house might be built and left at the proposed site over night.  If a beetle was found atop it the next day, that was a most excellent omen!  Their entire lives were lived in this fashion, in constant interaction with that other world.

These people firmly believed in this way of life and led it for generations.  And then, somehow, they stopped believing in their own magic, in themselves.  Why?

I can think of lots of answers and I was going to start listing them.  Then I thought "Why bother?"  Anybody reading this knows enough about "conspiracies" to know the answers, too.  These maleficent beings tricked our forebears somehow.  The real puzzle for me is:  What do we do now?

My opinion is that we need to figure out exactly what magic is and make sure that nobody ever takes it away from us again.  Of course, we can't really lose magic because it is what makes us--us.  We just forget about it until we wake up one morning and realize that the world is fucked and everybody is running around with masks on their faces and some men claim it is their constitutional right to use women's bathrooms. .

The Great Beast himself, Aleister Crowley, defined magic as "the Science and Art of causing Change to occur in conformity with Will."  This is exactly the pompously deceptive and sarcastically misleading statement the Crawling One would make.  He even sticks a "k" on the end to make his followers think he has come up with something new, that you have to DO magic(k) to make magic(k)  Crowley liked nothing better than to tell his followers to do the most outrageous, vile and dangerous things, then sit back and laugh when they actually were stupid enough to listen to him.  Notice I don't say that this kind of magic(k) doesn't work in a certain fashion.  Only that it is so degrading to the humans who practice it that their teachers are endlessly entertained.

On the other hand, we humans make our own brand of magic simply by being ourselves.  By building homes and cathedrals, raising families, sewing clothes and baking cookies.   Also by painting, and writing poetry, music and stories, breeding dogs, playing the guitar, sculpting statues, dancing Swan Lake and so on.  We are endlessly creative.   Any human who wants to be a magician is already one simply by being himself.  There is no need to be summoned to Hogwarts' School of Wizardry.  We Muggles possess more power in our little fingertips than Albus Dumbledore and Voldemort combined.

Entertaining as the Harry Potter stories are, this is the true danger they present.  They tell our children that they must stop being human in order to "perform magic".  And the stories neglect to mention that when you do "perform magic" it gives you nothing that will make you happy.  It opens a bottomless pit inside you that will always remain a yawning, running sore no matter how many material things and power you try to fill it with.

I believe that the Nefarious Elite right now find themselves impaled on the horns of a dilemma.  .They are attracted by our creative power and crave it for themselves, but at same time they are terrified of it.  They are Chronos devouring their own children. .To feed off us they need to control us, but to do that they must trick us into giving up the creativity, or human magic, that protects us. They have to destroy what they desire in order to steal it, and they never figure this out.

So it seems the Nefarious Elite are finally getting full control of us.  They are getting ready to sit down at the global table and scarf up all that juicy human energy, joy and creativity they have rounded up.  But what is actually waiting for them on their fine china plates?  Dried up zombies afflicted with the same mindless vacuity and greed of their "masters."  This meal will taste terrible and provide no nourishment.  In fact, it is poisonous. The Nefarious Elite will have no idea what has happened.  They never do.  This scenario has probably played out over and over on many planets or dimensions or on whatever stages this drama is being played out. .

The following theory has been popping in and out of my head all morning.  I tried to ignore it because it is a little too cute and tidy for my taste.   Yet there is a ring of truth about it so I'll present it and do with it what you will.  Here is my theory::

Maybe this reality is not all about us.  Maybe we have things backwards.  The prisoners on this prison planet are not us humans.  We come here and pretend to be weak and powerless so the inmates can experiment on us and, we hope, finally understand the true nature of this universe. We are much like kindergarten teachers who kneel down on the rug to play with the children but to do this believably we have to completely forget we are adults.  I keep thinking of Tolkien's Lord of the Rings, where the two mighty wizards, Sauron and Saruman, were in the end defeated by a walking party of plump little hobbits who preferred a good meal and a pipe of weed to a kingdom full of gold.

Yes, it would be nice if all this suffering going on was for a higher purpose.  It's hard to keep that in mind, however, when you are the person suffering.  All us Muggles and hobbits can only do our best to figure out what is going on and not spend our lives acting like frightened ostriches with our heads buried in the sand.  I've spend lots of time with my head in the sand and, trust me, it doesn't help.  Eventually you have to pull it out.

What was I talking about?  Oh--magic!  How we are being conditioned to believe that it is all fictional and only silly people believe that it works while all the time the Nefarious Elite practice it assiduously.  They want us to give up our own magic, the same way the government is trying to get us to hand over our guns.  "It's for your own protection!"  they say earnestly. "Those nasty guns can hurt you."  They want us to believe that giving them the things that protect us will make us safer.  Yup.  Any time the Nefarious Elite say they are doing something for our own good, we all know that something bad is about to happen to us.

Now, I'm not saying that guns should be used or if they are at all necessary, etc. Just that it is very interesting that the government is so desperate to get their hands on OUR guns when they have lots and lots of their own.

So, the narratives the Nefarious Elite insert into the media about magic should be investigated carefully.  They are trying to point us in one direction; therefore we must turn around and look in the other direction. I'm afraid I'm going to have to write a second article, that one on "black" magic as practiced by the Nefarious Elite and how it appears in history.  It might give us a glimpse of what the Wizard of Oz is busily doing behind that curtain.  It's won't be pretty and I don't look forward to it.     
