<meta name="title" content="All Science is Suppressed/Redacted!" />
<meta name="description" content="Though the mills of God grind slowly, yet they grind exceeding small; Though with patience He stands waiting, with exactness grinds He all.” />

```
Note: This investigation is **a work in progress**. Check back soon for more updates!
```

# Wake Up, Neo...

> “Though the mills of God grind slowly, yet they grind exceeding small;
> Though with patience He stands waiting, with exactness grinds He all.”  
> ― [Henry Wadsworth Longfellow](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/255749-though-the-mills-of-god-grind-slowly-yet-they-grind)

By Geri Roberts

If you are reading this article, you are Awake. And you have my heartiest congratulations on achieving a glimpse of the
world as it really is. And my sincerest sympathy. The truth might set you free, but it will never make you happy the way
you defined happiness when you were Asleep.

I did not want to Wake Up. My eyes were pried open by rough fingers and I was dragged screaming from my mattress and
blankets. But that is a complicated story I won't go into right now. I can tell you that once you Wake Up, however that
happens, you cannot fall back to Sleep again. You will want to once you get a good look at what has been going on around
you while you were unconscious, but you won't be able to. I know, because I've tried..

And now that you are Awake, the first thing you will want to do is to Awaken others from their Sleep and fill them in on
what has been going on. You will want want them to undo their chains and flee the cave of shadows to join you in the
sunlight. This will set everyone free and they will thank you, shedding tears of joy.

Some activists will disagree with me, but I believe this to be a very bad idea for two reasons:

The first reason is that nobody will believe you and anything you say or do will only frighten them away. The second
reason, and the important one, is that the Nefarious Elite who run this little shop of horrors we call Planet Earth have
been doing this for a very long time. They are expert jailers who have studied the psychology of us prisoners for eons.
They are so good at it that we don't even KNOW we are prisoners. These people know exactly what you are planning and
have taken simple steps to make sure you don't Wake anybody else Up.

These people (if they ARE people--my jury is still out on that) don't have to lift a finger to shut you up. They have
simply trained your fellow citizens for many generations to do this for them. Look back through history at what has
happened to those who attempted leave a Wakeup call for the human race:  They have been burned at the stake, dropped out
of helicopters at 10,000 feet, hung from doorknobs, chained to walls in insane asylums, frozen to death in Siberian
gulags, fired from their jobs, audited by the IRS, sucked dry by swarms of lawyers and disowned by their families. The
lucky ones are only laughed at or ignored.

Some, men of genius who were writers, artists or philosophers, managed to survive long enough to Wake Up a substantial
number of people. When this happens, more subtle and sinister traps come into play. I believe these ancient sentinels
exist in the form of Archetypes that have been carefully planted into our reality. I've only caught a glimpse of this
idea here and there and I am not yet ready to write about it. Maybe I never will be.

The Nefarious Elite have been planning this New World Order nightmare for years and years, hiding beartraps everywhere
for us to step into should we try to alert others as to what is coming our way. Here is an example as to how this system
works:

My brother-in-law Daniel is an intelligent, college educated professional whom I very much like. When this Great Virus
Hoax began last year I said the following words to him when he told me I should wear a mask to protect myself and
others::

"Masks don't keep viruses from spreading."

Now, I said nothing about a hoax or that viruses are probably nonexistent. What I said has been accepted by mainstream
science and even printed by the CDC.

Daniel laughed at me.  "You sound like a conspiracy theorist,"  he said

Since I AM a conspiracy theorist, and an old one at that, I shut up because I knew he wouldn't listen to anything I said
from that point on. But my son Kevin, who is young and idealistic, believed that Daniel's belief system could expanded
by a few provable facts. Kevin told him that the words "conspiracy theorist" had been weaponized by the CIA back in the
1960's after the Kennedy Assassination for the mainstream media to use against anyone who questioned the findings of the
Warren Commission. .

Daniel replied, right on cue, "I never heard that before. That's just a conspiracy theory."

Rap of the magician's wand. Snap of the fingers. Abracadabra!  The magic words are spoken and the human mind, entranced
by the babbling media whores, responds exactly as programmed.

I'm not saying we should abandon the struggle entirely. I admit that at times I have wanted to just lie down in a corner
and drink myself to death but something inside me will not stop ceaselessly delving and then writing about my delving. I
will say that we need to pick our battles wisely and not be tempted into arguments that serve no purpose but to exhaust
us and feed strength into our adversaries.

Right now the best thing we can do is think back about how we have been lied to by parents, school, religion, the
government, the military; by EVERYBODY. All those people might not have known they were repeating lies, but it really
doesn't matter. Consider it like a Life Review of Lies. And we must research and read and then write our ideas about all
of it down. Not just listen to podcasts or text friends or watch documentaries. Human critical faculties have atrophied
over the past- oh, one hundred and fifty years or so. We cannot help anyone else to think about what is happening to
them if we haven't a clue about how to express it to ourselves. We might be sure that something is happening but if we
have no reasoned arguments or evidence or even coherent speech about it, we will be reduced to Conspiracy Chicken
Littles. And there are too many of those running around selling survivalist supplies on Bitchute.

Then, if we are patient, something good might happen. Somebody might say something while waiting in line next to us in a
store, or on an internet forum. Or a young family member who considers us a doddering eccentric might ask us a question
at a family get together. And presto--the perfect, correct, startling and thought provoking answer to them leaps into
our minds and starts them on their own voyage of discovery. And Wakes them Up.

Will this actually happen to you? Probably not. It hasn't happened to me yet, that I know of. But you most likely will
never know it if it does happen. Planting a seed somewhere does not guarantee a blooming flower.

I often think that the Nefarious Elite are trying to panic us, trigger us into violence or distract our attention from
things we should be carefully keeping our eyes on. Let's ask ourselves why they are so afraid of little old us, those
goofy humans who don't even seem to notice when an Evil Force is trying to take over their Planet. Maybe, just maybe, we
are not as weak and stupid as they keep telling us we are...

People must be ready to Wake Up. Otherwise you can fire a cannon by their ear and they will not stir. But if they are
ready, nothing in this world will keep them Asleep. 