It has been established beyond all reasonable doubt that the Moon is not
what it appears; that it is not just another satellite orbiting a
planet, Earth, but an entity which has thrown the minds of some of the
greatest thinkers and scientific brains into a quandary and bewilderment
unprecedented in the history of astronomy. Why haven't you heard about
this? Another government cover-up? How could Moon mysteries have
anything to do with government secrecy, and moreover could it relate to
the suppression of the space programme?

Let us outline some of the extraordinary anomalies and mysteries
surrounding this puzzle. Clearly not all data will be equally reliable
but the abundance of interrelated information nevertheless gives an
overall picture which can be determined with some certainty. 

**The first academic enigma must surely be that the Moon is apparently in its wrong orbit for its size.** 

However, this would presumably be based on its
assumed density. Technical reports claim a density of 3.3 for the Moon
compared with 5.5 for Earth. Astronomy data indicates that the internal
regions of the Moon are less dense than the outer, giving rise to the
inevitable but outrageous speculation that it could be hollow. The
eminent and late scientist *Carl Sagan,* a typical sceptic, had made the
statement, "A natural satellite cannot be a hollow object." But meaning
here that if it is hollow, it is not a natural satellite -- and
therefore artificial.


Here's 33 things that need to be answered!

*1) * Sceptics argue that the lack of stars on Moon photographs is
acceptable, despite zero atmosphere to obscure the view. Yuri Gagarin,
pronounced the stars to be "astonishingly brilliant". See the official
NASA pictures above that I have reproduced that show 'stars' in the sky,
as viewed from the lunar surface. And why exactly do you think there are
hardly any stars visible on Apollo films taken from the Moon? The
answers simple - Professional astronomers would quickly calculate that
the configuration and distances of star formations were incorrect and so
NASA had to remove them to make sure they could keep up the scam.

2) The pure oxygen atmosphere in the module would have melted the
Hasselblad's camera covering and produced poisonous gases. Why weren't
the astronauts affected? 

*3)*  There should have been a substantial crater blasted out under the
LM's 10,000 pound thrust rocket.  Sceptics would have you believe that
the engines only had the power to blow the dust from underneath the LM
as it landed. If this is true, how did Armstrong create that famous boot
print if all the dust had been blown away?

*4)*  Sceptics claim that you cannot produce a flame in a vacuum because
of the lack of oxygen. So how come I have footage on this page showing a
flame coming from the exhaust of an Apollo lander? (Obviously the
sceptics are wrong or the footage shows the lander working in an
atmosphere)

*5)*  Footprints are the result of weight displacing air or moisture
from between particles of dirt, dust, or sand.  The astronauts left
distinct footprints all over the place.

*6) * The Apollo 11 TV pictures were lousy, yet the broadcast quality
magically became fine on the five subsequent missions.

*7)  * Why in most Apollo photos, is there a clear line of definition
between the rough foreground and the smooth background?

*8) * Why did so many NASA Moonscape photos have non parallel shadows?
sceptics will tell you because there is two sources of light on the Moon
- the Sun and the Earth... That maybe the case, but the shadows would
still fall in the same direction, not two or three different angles and
Earth shine would have no effect during the bright lunar day (the time
at which the Apollo was on the Moon).

*9)* Why did one of the stage prop rocks have a capital "C" on it and a
'C' on the ground in front of it?

*10) * How did the fibreglass whip antenna on the Gemini 6A capsule
survive the tremendous heat of atmospheric re-entry?

*11) * In Ron Howard's 1995 science fiction movie, Apollo 13, the
astronauts lose electrical power and begin worrying about freezing to
death.  In reality, of course, the relentless bombardment of the Sun's
rays would rapidly have overheated the vehicle to lethal temperatures
with no atmosphere into which to dump the heat build up.

*12) * Who would dare risk using the LM on the Moon when a simulated
Moon landing was never tested?

*13)*  Instead of being able to jump at least ten feet high in "one
sixth" gravity, the highest jump was about nineteen inches.

*14) * Even though slow motion photography was able to give a fairly
convincing appearance of very low gravity, it could not disguise the
fact that the astronauts travelled no further between steps than they
would have on Earth.

*15) * If the Rover buggy had actually been moving in one-sixth gravity,
then it would have required a twenty foot width in order not to have
flipped over on nearly every turn.  The Rover had the same width as
ordinary small cars.

*16) * An astrophysicist who has worked for NASA writes that it takes
two meters of shielding to protect against medium solar flares and that
heavy ones give out tens of thousands of rem in a few hours.  Russian
scientists calculated in 1959 that astronauts needed a shield of 4 feet
of lead to protect them on the Moons surface. Why didn't the astronauts
on Apollo 14 and 16 die after exposure to this immense amount of
radiation? And why are NASA only starting a project now to test the
lunar radiation levels and what their effects would be on the human body
if they have sent 12 men there already?

*17) * The fabric space suits had a crotch to shoulder zipper.  There
should have been fast leakage of air since even a pinhole deflates a
tyre in short order.

*18)*  The astronauts in these "pressurized" suits were easily able to
bend their fingers, wrists, elbows, and knees at 5.2 p.s.i. and yet a
boxer's 4 p.s.i. speed bag is virtually unbendable.  The guys would have
looked like balloon men if the suits had actually been pressurized.

*19) * How did the astronauts leave the LEM? In the documentary 'Paper
Moon' The host measures a replica of the LEM at The Space Centre in
Houston, what he finds is that the 'official' measurements released by
NASA are bogus and that the astronauts could not have got out of the LEM.

*20) * The water sourced air conditioner backpacks should have produced
frequent explosive vapour discharges.  They never did.

*21)  * During the Apollo 14 flag setup ceremony, the flag would not
stop fluttering.

*22) * With more than a two second signal transmission round trip, how
did a camera pan upward to track the departure of the Apollo 16 LEM? Gus
Grissom, before he got burned alive in the Apollo I disaster A few
minutes before he was burned to death in the Apollo I tragedy, Gus
Grissom said, /'Hey, you guys in the control center, get with it. You
expect me to go to the moon and you can't even maintain telephonic
communications over three miles.'/ This statement says a lot about what
Grissom thought about NASA's progress in the great space race.

*23)* Why did NASA's administrator resign just days before the first
Apollo mission?

*24) * NASA launched the TETR-A satellite just months before the first
lunar mission. The proclaimed purpose was to simulate transmissions
coming from the moon so that the Houston ground crews (all those
employees sitting behind computer screens at Mission Control) could
"rehearse" the first moon landing. In other words, though NASA claimed
that the satellite crashed shortly before the first lunar mission (a
misinformation lie), its real purpose was to relay voice, fuel
consumption, altitude, and telemetry data as if the transmissions were
coming from an Apollo spacecraft as it neared the moon. Very few NASA
employees knew the truth because they believed that the computer and
television data they were receiving was the genuine article. Merely a
hundred or so knew what was really going on; not tens of thousands as it
might first appear.

*25)* In 1998, the Space Shuttle flew to one of its highest altitudes
ever, three hundred and fifty miles, hundreds of miles below merely the
beginning of the Van Allen Radiation Belts. Inside of their shielding,
superior to that which the Apollo astronauts possessed, the shuttle
astronauts reported being able to "see" the radiation with their eyes
closed penetrating their shielding as well as the retinas of their
closed eyes. For a dental x-ray on Earth which lasts 1/100th of a second
we wear a 1/4 inch lead vest. Imagine what it would be like to endure
several hours of radiation that you can see with your eyes closed from
hundreds of miles away with 1/8 of an inch of aluminium shielding!

*26)* The Apollo 1 fire of January 27, 1967, killed what would have been
the first crew to walk on the Moon just days after the commander, Gus
Grissom, held an unapproved press conference complaining that they were
at least ten years, not two, from reaching the Moon. The dead man's own
son, who is a seasoned pilot himself, has in his possession forensic
evidence personally retrieved from the charred spacecraft (that the
government has tried to destroy on two or more occasions). Gus Grissom
was obviously trying to make a big statement as he placed a lemon in the
window of the Apollo I spacecraft as it sat ready for launch!

*27) * CNN issued the following report, "The radiation belts surrounding
Earth may be more dangerous for astronauts than previously believed
(like when they supposedly went through them thirty years ago to reach
the Moon.) The phenomenon known as the 'Van Allen Belts' can spawn
(newly discovered) 'Killer Electrons' that can dramatically affect the
astronauts' health."

*28) * In 1969 computer chips had not been invented. The maximum
computer memory was 256k, and this was housed in a large air conditioned
building. In 2002 a top of the range computer requires at least 64 Mb of
memory to run a simulated Moon landing, and that does not include the
memory required to take off again once landed. The alleged computer on
board Apollo 11 had 32k of memory. That's the equivalent of a simple
calculator.

*29) * If debris from the Apollo missions was left on the Moon, then it
would be visible today through a powerful telescope, however no such
debris can be seen. The Clementine probe that recently mapped the Moons
surface failed to show any Apollo artefacts left by Man during the
missions. Where did the Moon Buggy and base of the LM go?

* 30)* In the year 2005 NASA does not have the technology to land any
man, or woman on the Moon, and return them safely to Earth.

*31)* Film evidence has recently been uncovered of a mis-labelled,
unedited, behind-the-scenes video film, showing the crew of Apollo 11
staging part of their photography. The film evidence is shown in the
video "[A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Moon](http://www.moonmovie.com)!".
and appears above in the 'Why Did Apollo 11
Astronauts Lie About Being In Deep Space?' section.

*32) *Why did the blueprints and plans for the Lunar Module and Moon
Buggy get destroyed if this was one of History's greatest accomplishments?

*33)* Why did NASA need to airbrush out anomalies from lunar footage of
the Moon if they have nothing to hide? The Apollo mission was
meticulously planned, yet there were still flaws in the plan which the
public is being made aware of as time goes on. Unlike a simple game of
[bingo](http://www.poshbingo.co.uk) where nothing is planned and no
strategy is involved the Apollo mission was thought out and at the time
there seemed to be an answer to every question that arose.  As times
change and more research is being done on the mission the tables are
beginning to turn and the public is starting to see the truth.