### Examples of Controlled Opposition

[Does Assange, or those who care about his interests, know he is part of chambers working for the U.S. government?](https://off-guardian.org/2019/11/08/assange-lawyers-links-to-us-govt-bill-browder-raises-questions/)

### Examples of Controlled Opposition

"I am going to go out on a limb here as some, or many of the names on this list are going to suprise, and challenge some
people - nonetheless please allow me to add some context. I encourage you to do further research and to keep asking
questions."

#### Communism & Stalin

Who funded Marx? Who was behind the Bolshevik Revolution? What groups did Stalin target and kill? What group did Stalin
not touch? The West always needs a bogey-man and a threat. Once it was Communism, today it is terrorists of any kind.

#### China & Mao

Communism was funded by the West (see 1). Mao Zedong got his start as editor of the Yale China Association Student
magazine re-focusing it on 'thought reorientation,' and operated a bookshop out of its medical college. (source:
Wikipedia)

#### Al-Qaeda & ISIS

Al-Qaeda was created by the CIA to fight a US proxy war against the USSR in Afghanistan. The program went underground (
black) after the war ended. ISIS is essentially Al-Qaeda re-branded.

#### Wikileaks & Assange

"I'm constantly annoyed that people are distracted by false conspiracies such as 9/11, when all around we provide
evidence of real conspiracies, for war or mass financial fraud." What about the Bilderberg conference? "That is vaguely
conspiratorial, in a networking sense. We have published their meeting notes." - Julian Assange, Belfast Telegraph (
source below). Assange doesn't talk about western state sponsored terror and while he has talked about banks he hasn't
attacked the central banks, BIS or World Bank.

#### Edward Snowden

He told us that the NSA spies us - didn't we already know this? Snowden doesn't talk about, or release documents on
western state sponsored terror, illegal wars and occupations, torture, 9/11 or even a corrupt politican or banker - if
he did have top-level clearance he should have been able to find some evidence. The US Gov't even allowed his
pole-dancing fiance to fly to Russia and marry him.

#### Donald Trump

My take on the Great Reset we're currently in. This isn't the first Reset caused by the Deep State. First Great Reset
was the Ottoman invasion of Europe 1492. With a pandemic as cover Christians were wiped out or fled to America. Next
Great Reset was possibly the Reformation 1516, Christian Cathars (from Russia) were catherized in fire. After that the
next Great Reset was the defeat of Napoleon in World War Zero 1812. Anyone not catholic, copy-catholic (protestant), or
otherwise converted to monotheism was slaughtered leading to orphan trains. 1912 sinking of the Titanic triggered yet
another Great Reset with a world war and a pandemic. Just like 1812, 1912 had a 40 year genocide follow it called the
Great Depression (120 million Americans) the Holodomor (66 million euroasian Christians) and other genocides, and more
orphan trains. 1812 and 1912 gave the Deep State a roadmap of how to do another reset around 2012. If you still don't
think the 'Great Reset' is a real thing, you aren't aware of what was said at DAVOS June 2020.

George W Bush was taken out on 9-11-2001 if you hadn't noticed. All appearances after that date were staged. Today he
appears quite brain-dead. Obama was then scheduled to win to enable the race war as race would be blamed for 8 years of
economic/human rights deterioration. Hillary was supposed to beat Trump in 2016 to enable a gender war and start the
pandemic. After 4 years of poverty and death, Trump was supposed to beat Hillary in 2020 to 'put a man in charge', and
then oversee another 4 years of America's destruction. We would then be back on the Agenda 2030 schedule and ready for a
New World Order government to supplant our Federal and State.

So the Deep State was planning a Great Reset on Feb 14th 2016 (Valentines day, bummer...) under the cover of war and
another pandemic. The 9/11 COUP of the United States Government triggered 2 new wars and the rise of ISIS. Pressure on
Russia triggered another in 2008, 2014, and 2022. After Crimea, the Russian intel community began a defensive campaign
informing the world on the CCP planned zombie virus and 5G rollout, jadeHELM (Homeland Elimination of Local Militia)
2015 invasion of Texas, and other ways our government has been hijacked since 9/11. Our US Generals finally took it
seriously and plan was formulated to save our country.

The Great Reset was then executed prematurely by the US Army and their candidate, Trump, which is why we're seeing it
fail completely. The "Trump Plan" as executed has been 100% successful, regardless of what the controlled opposition
agents like qanon or Mike (Pillow) Lindell have to say. Under Trump the US Army was rebuilt, has avoided WW3, defeated
ISIS caliphate which covered 17,520 square miles in 2017 (everyone forgot), exposed the Federal Government a.k.a. Deep
State, and saved America. Trump is not running again - he is a Deep State Creation that turned on it's creator. Happens
all the time. Hitler. Napoleon. We can't ever elect anyone like that again. Vote Ron DeSantis in 24 (or Marjorie Taylor
Greene). From here on out Trump will do whatever he needs to do to take the Deep State down with his personal sinking
ship. That was the plan, and he was happy to do it.

#### Bernie Sanders

His campaign was sabotaged by the DNC and manipulated by the super delegates and Bernie didn't speak up about it and
demand change. He played his role becasue his job was simply to ensure that Hillary won the nomination. He was also used
to open up the debate about socialism which is where the US and world is headed (see point 1 about Communism).

#### Alex Jones

Alex talks a lot of truth and he has woken a lot of people up but there are topics that he won't touch that I am not
prepared to go into at this stage other than to suggest that you research who Stalin didn't target and kill (point 1).
Alex often loses it, watch his rant with Piers Morgan on CNN. These rants are intended to make him come across as crazy
and he saved it for CNN so that the masses that saw it will more easily dismiss him as a looney.

#### ALL Mainstream Media and Hollywood

They all spread lies, there is no such this as true investigative journalism. 90% of US citizens get their news from 6
media companies. Hollywood movies pre-program the masses.

#### Musicians, Actors & Celebrities

Research Aleister Crowley and the role that the Illuminati and Occult plays in music and movies etc.

#### RT News

RT lobbies for cultural Marxist progression, UN Agenda 21 and global warming propaganda. Larry King now works for RT
after working for many years with CNN. Max Keiser also comes across as a little crazy at times, just like Alex Jones
does. Watch the video below of Max Keiser doing an interview with Alex Jones in a car (under sources).

#### Almost All Alternative MediaRussell Brand, Jesse Ventura etc

Paid actors and clowns. I can't even be bothered wasting energy on them, it's so obvious.

#### Almost All Alternative Media

The bigger and more popular the alternative media organisation is the more it is controlled opposition. They speak a lot
of truth but once again, there are some topics that just won't touch.

#### And so many more - most of we are told is a **Big, Fat Fabricated Lie!**

Don't Believe Me? I Encourage You to Do Your Own Research!

----------------------------------------------------------

### Communism by the Backdoor (Part 1 of 21) - Watch the Full Series

* * *

### Hillary Clinton Admits that the US Gov't Created Al-Qaeda = Controlled Opposition

* * *

### Obama Admits that the US Gov't Trained & Funded ISIL/ISIS = Controlled Opposition

* * *

### Edward Snowden = Controlled Opposition

* * *

### The Gov't Wants Us to Rise-up and Wake-Up - That Gives Them a Reason & Cause to Take Our Guns Away and Implement Martial Law - You Know This Because They Want You To Know It and They are Using their Controlled Opposition Agents to Do It!